Depends why your moving, what stage of life your in etc. We did it four years ago, 
bought a house, got married, had a kid, we wouldn’t do these things in Vancouver 
besides maybe the wedding. I make a lot more here in my industry and I pay a lot 
less for my mortgage.
Agreed! I was happy in Vancouver as a young adult without kids. There was so much
to do and I wasn't home much so living in a small apartment was great. Now with 
kids, I enjoy living in Calgary because of the relative affordability and family friendly
activities that the city has to offer. The part of Vancouver that I miss are the ocean 
and transit and access to islands. The parts of Calgary that I like are the city parks, 
friendly people, and sense of community in our neighborhood. The only part I dislike
about Calgary is the car dependence and harsh climate for gardening.
Calgary's such a weird place for gardening, there are lots of plants that can't deal 
with the climate, but certain things can grow incredibly well because of the high soil
quality. Things like the carrots from the farmers market that are amazingly sweet, I 
didn't realize you cant find them out east until i moved. My parents used to have an 
amazing garden, but they had to spent 30 years collecting knowledge about what 
does and doesn't work to get there (also that stuff's so expensive!)
There are some things that will grow here that will only grow in mountainous regions
of Pakistan. It's amazing how much Pakistan's mountains look like Alberta's
Not gardening related but it reminded me of this. Lived in Calgary my whole life and
I just went to Vancouver for the first time last month. I have never seen the grass so
green on public lands.... In Calgary the only type of grass we got is brown.
in May and early June nose hill looks like green heaven after a day of rain
The grass is greener on the other side.
That isn't true. I have family in BC and alot of summers they have had little rain and
their grass dead. While we had beautiful green grass here in Calgary.
This isn't true. I went and it WAS RAINING
Legacy
Are you looking at grass fires or something?
Moved here from Vancouver 5 years ago after living there for 12 years.
The biggest thing is in less then 5 years - I paid off my debt while owning and 
operating a vehicle. Things are changing here now but I still feel like there is 
opportunity to get ahead. At times I was ahead in Vancouver but it would only last 
so long.
Overall quality of rentals are better here - in my experience.
Work opportunities come with much better wages.
I have also found the people and the city itself to be great. Maybe not as many 
concerts come here but I have made friends in my 30s and the mountains and even 
the river are super amazing. Missed the rain for like the first year but now couldn't 
imagine not having as much sun as we do.
Art culture here is different - In my experience people want to work with each other 
more.
My situation may be different then others but my wife and I felt very stuck in 
Vancouver - moving here has been one of the best decisions for both of us.
I know you hear those things about Alberta politics and shit but honestly I haven't 
found it much different then people I would come across that lived in the lower 
mainland of BC.
All in all - 100 percent worth it.
So happy for you both. I came to Alberta for different reasons but stayed for exactly 
what you said.
Thank you!
If you're a renter, Calgary is less stable but is still cheaper. Alberta has very few 
protections in place compared to BC and it has made it challenging for us to settle 
in one place but our rent is also $1300 less per month than if we had the same 
place in a fun neighbourhood in Vancouver... If you have a good priced, stable rental
in Vancouver then never give that up.
March and April are the hardest months for me. Still winter (ish) and brown here 
when the snow melts; while Vancouver is blossoming and gorgeous.
It is harder to 'getaway' here. Yes the mountains for the day are great and in the 
summer, camping is a huge thing because the ability to rent a cute cottage by some
water basically doesn't exist (not sure Sylvan Lake is worth counting). Hotels in the 
mountains are also pretty expensive.
If you work in the trades (or other hourly jobs), safety regulations and workers rights
are much worse in Calgary. UCP has gutted a lot of protections including rights to 
overtime pay. Alberta occupational health and safety is almost useless for workers 
whereas WorkBC is really proactive if you have questions or need support 
navigating safety issues with an employer.
Calgary has a really solid food scene that is fairly different from Vancouver - slightly 
more expensive but I think more robust when comparing size of cities.
Cycling infrastructure in Calgary is just as good if not better than Vancouver and 
rush hour traffic is much more manageable
 and predictable than Vancouver so that's a solid plus. Transit is nowhere near as 
good so unless you live very central or are a very committed winter cyclist, it is 
much much more challenging and rare to not own a vehicle here (I know tons of 30 
somethings in Vancouver getting by just fine without one and using Evo every so 
often).
People are warmer and welcoming in Calgary - meeting people has been pretty 
straight forward and that wasn't something I experienced in Vancouver in the same 
way where people are 'busy' a lot.
Calgary is more conservative than Vancouver. Even the people who would put 
themselves in the liberal bracket generally have a streak of small c conservativism 
runnning through them. There absolutely is a progressive crowd but it isn't the 
standard here.
That's all I got for now...
Lastly, if you earn between something like $35k and $120k income taxes (can't 
remember exact numbers) are actually higher in Alberta than BC. No PST doesn't 
cover the difference for us. Higher earners are better off in Alberta though.
Oh and medical system - everyone's system is in crisis but we have been able to 
access many more specialized services in Calgary than we could in Vancouver and 
the surrounding area. There are different rules here for GPs to set up specialized 
practices so Calgary has things like sleep clinics, GP run therapy clinics and 
women's health clinics that are all covered by the medical system (for now at least).
Therapy is more expensive here though as there are different regulations about who
can call themselves a psychologist. In BC, clinical counsellors are usually $115ish 
per hour and psychologists are $200+, in Alberta everyone is $200 +.
I’m surprised you say it’s hard to get away from the city. I’ll take Calgary to 
Kananaski, Canmore, Banff and Lake Louise any day over sitting in traffic on Lions 
Gate trying to get to Whistler.
I mean for more than a night - those places are great for a day trip but hotels there 
(especially in the summer) are often prohibitively expensive. There's also lack of 
choice. Vancouver you have Vancouver Island, Washington State, Gulf Islands, 
Sunshine Coast, Harrison... I know that ferries are a PITA but my point is sort of that 
within a weekends drive distance of Calgary there isn't a whole lot going on, 
Vancouver is that much more connected. I guess I'm also saying - mountains are 
great but give me some ocean or lakes. That is hard to find within 4 hours of 
Calgary.
Touché sir. We are definitely not a ferry to the states.
I am surprised you mentioned food is better in Calgary. I think Calgary don’t have 
much fresh food here, other than beef. Seafood is a joke here. I have tried many 
sushi restaurants in Calgary, even the expensive ones ($100 each) are averages.
They said the food was more varied, fish will always be better closer to the source.
I said the food/restaurant scene is different and a little more robust for its size. 
There aren't as many sushi restaurants here and Calgary certainly lacks the 
affordable, average options that are in abundance in Vancouver but there are a 
couple that I happily return to again and again.
I do miss fresh spot prawns and ling cod almost straight from the boat so definitely 
the sea food scene at markets is lacking.
What is lacking is made up for with fantastic Indian and Nepalese, really great pho, 
more latin american restaurants and some great original cocktail/small plate 
concepts. Again, Vancouver has all of these but the food/restuarant scene is 
different there. I won't proclaim for everyone that it is worse since if your primary 
needs are sushi and fresh seafood you will be disappointed by Calgary.
We have a ton of great restaurants in Calgary. International, Canadian, loads of 
great ones. The one thing we wouldn’t compete with is sushi or fresh seafood, 
because duh.
If sushi is the only foodtype you’re judging off of, Calgary is definitely worse.... And 
about 1000km farther from any ocean. 😂
But outside of sushi and Indian food, I’d agree with OP. There is some legit good 
food here.
Well, most good sushi fish is ship from Tokyo. I don’t see any problem for the plane 
fly an extra hour. But the fact that the importer simply don’t want to import more 
kinds of fish is odd.
Also, a lot of sushi restaurants in Calgary is run by Chinese or Korean, those mainly 
sell salmon and tuna with tons of rolls you won’t find in Japan. Only a few is own and
run by Japanese. This fact alone is disappointing enough.
I only able to find 2 decent sushi restaurants is run by Japanese in the North. That is
why I mostly order from a Japanese guy on Facebook. He do all the cooking himself 
and tastes a lot better than regular sushi places in Calgary. Also, he price is very 
reasonable for what he offer.
I’d love to know the Japanese restaurants and Japanese guy on FB for good 
Japanese food 🍱
I usually order combo C with other things.
They mean restaurants, I think.
I know. But I believe Vancouver has better restaurants.
I don't know about better if we look at big picture. I would've agreed with you hands
down before COVID but for some reason during and since, BC hospitality industry is 
BRUTAL when it used to be world class and Calgary has been top notch. I wish I 
knew why that was but it's good for us but bad for BC.
Service has been incredible here.
Have found the transition pretty seamless.
I liked the climate in Vancouver. Didn’t mind the rain and loved seeing greenery 
year-round. In Calgary I still rejoice at how sunny it is, and the winters have been 
much milder than I remember the Prairie winters of my youth.
For me, Calgary has absolutely required a vehicle. In Vancouver never needed one 
and loved the Skytrain.
I miss the Ocean, inlets etcetera but am enjoying becoming acquainted with the 
water sources in Alberta. Calgary and surrounding area has some really pretty 
swimming that locals will generously share.
Re: the locals. Overall I’ve found the city hugely welcoming. Two times I’ve been in a
bind, strangers have RUSHED to come to my aid and been really generous.
The novelty of not paying tax has not worn off. The first time I went to Costco I just 
about fainted when I realized how much I was saving on tax.
I was VERY worried about leaving Vancouver’s restaurants. But, I am pleasantly 
surprised at the range and quality Calgary offers. Super good eats here. From 
Momo’s to Thai street food to BBQ bahn mi platters. Good fish and chips or sushi 
aren’t as plentiful but they do exist. AND...get ready to execute experimentation in 
finding the best of many wonderful Shwarma’s.
The big sky, mountains and rolling prairies are gorgeous. The province has tons of 
neat places to explore even on day trips.
Rent is cheaper. Takes slightly less time to get anywhere. Less assholes live here. 
Snow.
Not less, different types of assholes...
Less?
Certainly less of the pretentious type assholes, definitely more of the Dodge Ram 
type assholes
Hah yea my thoughts exactly. Maybe just different..?
Certainly different. Assholes are everywhere.
Fewer
I did the reverse and I miss Calgary every day of my life. I've made a decent life 
here but it's just not the same. Everything is so expensive, finding good paying jobs 
are finding a Sasquatch riding a unicorn, people aren't as friendly, everything is kind
of dingy, the rainy winters are so depressing.
I like the access to lakes and the BC interior is really nice. But If my circumstances 
were different I'd be loading a U-Haul as we speak.
No regrets at all, even on cold days like this. Vancouverites are brainwashed in to 
thinking Vancouver is the greatest place on earth and anywhere else is a shithole 
and you're life will never be as good. Turns out we were wrong, who knew?
Moving from Vancouver to Calgary is just a conversation about lifestyle vs 
affordability. You will have more lifestyle options in Vancouver, but life will be more 
affordable here. Also, do you actually mean Vancouver or do you mean like surrey or
langley. Because Calgary can't compete with with downtown Vancouver, but I'd 
much rather live in Calgary than Surrey or maple ridge.
I would say affordability gives you lifestyle. If you are struggling to pay for life, that 
ain't much of a lifestyle.
Bingo!
Being one paycheck away from homelessness but living right in downtown 
Vancouver isn’t much of a lifestyle....it’s a ticking time bomb
I don't agree with this. Lifestyle is about the choice and options you have, not what 
you can afford. There's way more to do, and more variety in Vancouver.
By your logic, a place cheaper than Calgary would provide you more lifestyle 
because it's more affordable.
What does that mean, anyways, "more lifestyle options"? I feel that's just another 
way of saying, "more concerts and museums".
It means 80% of the city isn't just suburbia
More everything. More restaurants, more concerts, more bars, more parades, more 
variety, more "lifestyle" type things.
Nothing wrong with Surrey. North area is questionable but the South is perfectly 
fine. You can say North Surrey is basically the same as NE Calgary in a lot of ways.
Maple Ridge also gets a really bad name for no reason as I know a few people who 
live there and never had a issue.
There's nothing wrong with those areas, and they are totally fine cities. But they 
aren't "Vancouver" to me, and i'd much rather live in Calgary then the boonies of 
lower mainland. I have friends who live in those areas who work in Vancouver and 
commute 60-90 minutes daily.
Also if you're near a Skytrain in Surrey, it's like a 30 minute ride into downtown 
Vancouver
statements about living in Calgary versus Vancouver.


"I’ve lived in both cities and found Calgary to be much more open and people seem to respect and appreciate hard work so that its easier to be successful in Calgary. I always found Vancouverites to be snobby and distant. Calgary is in a slump right now due to the oil business. I love the Rockies and Vancouver has many beautiful places. If you’re rich choose Van if you’re middle class and family oriented go to Calgary.

I like the weather in Calgary better than the weather in Vancouver. That is just my particular preference. I like sunshine and I prefer dry to humid. I do not mind snow and a little occasional cold during the winter. Calgary has a mild winter in comparison to a city like Edmonton.

Vancouver is much more congested than Calgary.

Vancouver is in BC and therefore goods and services are subject to a provincial sales tax. Calgary is in Alberta where there is no such tax.

There is nothing about Vancouver that I can think of that would give me an incentive to move there from Calgary.

Calgary is very remote, but everything is new the cost of living is low compared to most Canadian cities. Winters are brutal for most people. Summers are very short it can be -10 at night in September and -1 in the day is not unheard of. Part of this is due to Calgary's winds. It's on a high elevation 2000ft above sea level under the rain shadow of the rockies. Sun is abundant but so is cold weather. Wages are high here and it provides great access to explore the rockies and cascade valleys.

Vancouver is close to major US cities and many international airports. Vancouver's housing stock a lot is old, the cost of living is high. The city is kind of dirty with a lot of homelessness. It's on the Pacific ocean though which means great beaches and amazing fresh air. It's in a rain forest so there are two seasons dry and wet. However, during rainy season the rain can be escaped surprisingly easily. Sunshine valley about 1:15 outside of Vancouver basks in 290 days of sunshine one of the highest In Canada. So you can escape there on dreary weekends. Vancouver is very eco-friendly. Gas is expensive, AC is uncommon so expect to not have the creature comforts of most American and Canadian cities.

If you're kind of a free spirit type person I would live in Vancouver if you don't mind being without certain things like AC and having affordable housing (and good and new housing).

If you're a person who loves clean and new things and likes activities that aren't expensive, somebody who is very conscious about costs of things live in Calgary. Bear in mind travel is expensive from Calgary airports due to their remoteness you pay for it and the ocean is a long drive away.

The basic matter of fact is, if you have money, like lots of it, then live in Vancouver. The average housing price in 2022 is $1.59 million, and gas and cost of living are more expensive than in Calgary too. But if money isn’t an issue for you, it's a beautiful place to live surrounded by a lot of nature.

Calgary isn’t as naturally beautiful, and it’s more of a slow-moving city. But the major pluses are the incredibly low costs of living and the fact that the house prices there are 1/3 of Vancouver prices.

Vancouver is in the midst of a decades-long housing crisis. And, it rains a lot here. No, seriously, a LOT.

So, unless you are viscerally repulsed by Calgary for no logical reason, or, you really need the ocean, I’d say Calgary is the better choice."

"I hope you aren't prone to migraines. Chinooks leveled me for 15 years there."
"Haven't had a migraine since I left Calgary. My whole family suffers from them but don't believe it was air pressure."
"Botox, triptans, Ajovy."
"I just left. Lol."
"Well, there definitely are many many treatments for chinook migraines, and are very effective."
"Hella side effects... damn. I stay away from meds as treatment. Lower mainland is a ok spot to live and a bonus for me is the relatively stable barometric pressure. That was my trigger while living in the east coast, arctic and Alberta."
"My husband gets wicked migraines from the pressure change. Totally get not getting meds for headaches and other treatments. Sometimes it's just better to go through it then to spend a fortune or treatments that 'might' work short term."
"Alrighty, then."
"Some of us don’t respond to triptans, and there’s only so much a beta blocker can do to prevent them. Chinook migraines cost me so much quality of life when I lived there."
"I moved to Calgary from Vancouver 23 years ago. At the time I was a young technologist, got hired to a company in Vancouver and spent two years there after finishing school. My pay was very low and rent even back then was quite high. I worked for a great company but had a horrible boss. I was recruited by a company in Calgary, and made the decision to move. My pay jumped by 30% overnight and I rented a much nicer apartment for somewhat less than I was paying in Van. My commute in Vancouver was minimum 45 minutes, in Calgary it dropped to 15. The dreary depressing fall & winter was replaced by much colder but much sunnier climate. It helped I had friends who had previously made them move so I knew people already, but folks in Calgary are much, much friendlier than Vancouverites. Calgary is generally a pretty easy city to live and work in. I was transferred to Edmonton 15 years ago, and it’s okay but I would recommend Calgary over Edmonton for a number of reasons. Having said all that I’m ready to move back to BC. The political climate here is really toxic and if you think rural BC is bad, it’s got nothing on rural Alberta. There’s a lot of really shitty people here, but you can avoid them in you live & work in the right places. But I’m tired of the boom & bust, the political climate, the weather and the fact that Edmonton is in the middle of nowhere. So we’ve got a place in the Okanangan we’re going to semi-retire to in a couple years. Calgary doesn’t feel nearly as isolated and the weather is a little better… you’ll learn to appreciate the Chinooks. You’ll find in Calgary that a lot of people’s conversations revolve around their jobs and money. It’s a showy city.. the people with money want to flaunt it."
"Who thinks Rural BC is bad? Living rurally in BC is incredible. Awesome folks all over the place, incredible pace of life and access to beautiful places almost everywhere. A few bad apples but where isn't there."
"Oh I agree. But you see a lot of rural BC bashing from Vancouverites. That’s why I said that. We have a family cabin up in the Cariboo and love it up there."
"I think a large part is the political differences. Smaller towns tend to lean conservative and Vancouver area is more liberal (especially on Reddit) so there's more bashing that way. But if you go talk to people and live out there it's not bad.. yes there are some crazy rednecks out there but for the most part people are normal and nice in smaller towns."
"You must be white and straight. I grew up in the Cariboo and it is redneck central and many people are simply uneducated and very politically right wing because of it. The education system rurally is really awful, and many people don't even graduate high school. Anti-LGBTQ and racism are rampant and COVID has made it significantly worse and made people very divided. I am not looking forward to visiting, last time I went both sides of the highway were lined with Anti-Trudeau protestors screaming obscenities at people."
"My partner and I are in the Cariboo at least four times a year, we’re quite open and not exactly discrete and we’ve never experienced any sort of discrimination in the 15 years we’ve been going to the 100 Mile House area, when we’re up there we go into town for lunch or afternoon drinks every day, shop at local stores, etc. Everyone

 we’ve met seems nice and friendly, in fact I struggle to think of a time when we encountered someone like you describe. I have no doubt there’s some level of intolerance there, There is in downtown Vancouver as well. But I certainly haven’t found it to be the redneck dystopian hell that you describe."
"Grew up in the Cariboo, spent the first 25 years of my life there. It's a swirling hellscape of xenophobia and homophobia. Visiting, you're likely to not encounter much, as rural BC has that 'old timey charm and hospitality,' but I would never in a million years, advise people to move there if they have a choice. Unless they like living 25 years in the past. Some examples, both personal, and from headlines: After explaining my heritage (mostly Filipino) in school, a classmate asked 'Wow, don't you have anything normal in you?' When I was trying to promote someone at the chain pizza place I worked at, the comanager said 'well we can't promote him, he's native.' (Note, they used slur instead of saying 'native')This person was not fired and was still at the store long after I had quit. (well, gotten fired but that's a different story.) The grocery store I worked at had an assistant manager ELBOW DROP an already restrained native person on the ground. The native person in question had shoplifted, but the LPO(loss prevention officer) had already brought the man to the ground and restrained him as peacefully and quickly as possible, and proper authorities were already on the way. This manager made a point of elbow dropping him, in front of the entire grocery store full of customers. Every time I went to the local Walmart, I was followed by security. After talking to various non white friends, they confirmed this happens to them as well. I talked to an employee at this Walmart, off the record, and he told me security was told to mostly focus on native shoppers. Lots of excessive force used against non white folk, only a few making headlines, but notably, paralyzing a native man in 2016. The mayor of my hometown, although he 'apologized' for it, has stated on several occasions the opinion that Residential Schools weren't all bad. It really kills me when people romanticize rural BC. Yes, the surrounding nature is gorgeous, but it's a festering wound, full of big truck rednecks who all never left their hometown, but think they know how the world really works."
"Ngl this is one of the reasons we are scared to move up north towards Kelowna ,Salmon arm, Vernon areas. Although we are white,(I'm native but look nothing like it) I'm worried it's a very heavy 'white person only' kind of area. Raising a kid there is really concerning because we want him to be accepting of everyone but it's hard to hammer in that mentality when you're surrounded by racism everywhere to other colored nationalities."
"I lived in Kelowna for a year and half and hated it so much that I came back. Much happier in metro Vancouver and I think it’s better to raise kids in a place where there’s so many activities and communities to join vs in somewhere where drinking in the bushes is a regular Friday night activity for teens."
"The thing about Metro though that's pushing us is we have no quality of life. We can barely afford rent out here, parks are 2-4 blocks minimum away in the summer and even being close to activities doesnt mean we can afford them. We want to put more away for our son into RESP but right now we can barely put anything in there. We already have a little one so everything we do is about him now. That's why we are thinking of moving to be closer to nature, have a backyard, be able to walk through town , have access to swim lessons ,daycares, activities for kids etc cause all of those are insane to get into down here. Im just not into people screaming their views at me as if it's a personality trait."
"Ymmv but I found the Okanagan was very harsh for child rearing. Daycares had bad hours (mostly opened at 7:30 and closed at 4:30) our commutes were way longer (we are both in trades and there’s not enough of what we do to keep us busy in Kelowna, I went to Revelstoke, Nelson and Trail, Kamloops, Penticton multiple times a month), half the roads had no sidewalks, buses just didn’t come sometimes, ALL of summer we were trapped inside because of smoke, spring had flooding. Plus being on our own away from family was really hard- no back up child care, no breaks etc. People were racist too but in a mainly micro aggression way. I’m white but it made me feel weird. Lots of overt racism against indigenous people though. Just some things to consider. I also found

 that restaurant food was more expensive and the grocery stores had less selection. And it’s a completely different place in the winter vs summer so I always encourage people to visit for awhile in both seasons before making a commitment. Also in the okanagan the wages were quite a bit lower for trades- my husband went from making $35 an hour at the time (this was 2016/2017) to 28. Very much a sunshine tax there."
"That's the vibe I got too. Strong anti Vax white truck dude bollocks."
"I'm glad you have not had bad experiences, but I would argue it is very different as a visitor/tourist over actively living in the community. I am queer and my partner is Asian and we lived in that area each for over 20 years and both have had dreadful experiences. For example, our roommate was indigenous and if the 3 of us went to Walmart without fail they would stop us to check our receipt and bag every single time and it was 3/4 chance they would stop my partner (I have NEVER been stopped by myself and I am white). They both would also be followed in stores by white employees. I was harassed and bullied all throughout school for being queer and so were all of my fellow queer friends. I had more than one teacher suspended for extremely racist remarks in the classroom. It is not always the utopia you experience as an outsider that you described."
"Yes it's a very different vibe there and further north."
"Sounds cool."
"Also, the cost of buying a house is sometimes less than even calgary. One of the only knocks I had against small town living when I moved to one 10 years ago was the lack of good internet, but we've had fibre for 5 years now and more and more places are getting it. :)"
"Rural BC is more conservative than the big cities, but it hasn't been an issue for me. The majority of people I run into (moved to a town of 10k four years ago) that lean that way, do so over economic concerns primarily - people in the resource industries tend to vote that way. Its a bit red-necky out here, but no where near as bad as some places I've visited."
"Calgary is where you make and save money, then spend it in Vancouver."
"Went the other way, never regretted. Every visit to Calgary reminds me why I left."
"I see your Calgary and raise you Red Deer. I do not miss living there. Hell i will take the cost of living for my sanity."
"Could you elaborate?"
"I left Calgary a long time ago. Gone back a few times to visit. Would not want to move back. Although a friend from vancouver moved there 2 years ago as he could afford to by a place out there. Would not want to live there but it is more affordable there than vancouver."
"Do you need to drive in Calgary? I don't drive for medical reasons, and it's just so expensive here now... augh."
"Calgary is basically just a big sprawl - they built out instead of up. Traffic isn't bad, but the odds that you will be living in close proximity of everything you need are low."
"It really depends on where you live. But in general, yes you need to drive. Most of Calgary is built around vehicles and driving. There are walkable areas and communities that are great, but large areas of the city require a vehicle to get around."
"I came to Vancouver from Calgary and from my perspective I think the medical system is far superior here. I also enjoy the climate and the scenery here. Calgary has the mountains and no question about it they are quite accessible. The city is spread out as others say but the freeways allow you to get around the city quickly. For me though, it was the fact that I have connections in Vancouver that kept me here and while it is expensive and hard to keep up with rising prices, Vancouver is the better place to be."
"Having lived there for 8 years then moving back to BC, the gas was cheaper and the housing, but open your wallet wide, for absolutely every single other expense. The utility cost in AB alone is incredibly high compared to living in the Vancouver area."
"I went the opposite way, lived in AB for 12 years and then moved to BC. You couldn't pay me to move back to Alberta. The industries and work security are so unsteady, I felt constantly worried about losing my job. Rents and property prices are high too, it didn't seem any more 'affordable' not sure where that myth comes from. Albertans can be nice sometimes but the cultural focus tends to money, how big is your truck, there's aspects of white supremacy and male chauvinism that seems inherent. They are proud of this too. Again, not all Albertans are like this but I left for good reason. Camping and summer recreation is short in AB. Winters are so long, and yes I too got an

 occasional migraine from a Chinook. City transit is a joke, especially in winter. I'm told it has improved since I moved. Never looked back."
"I moved to Calgary from Vancouver in November 2021 so have been here just over a year now and I have no regrets whatsoever. I sold a condo and bought a house for approximately the same amount, which is absolute insanity. There is so much blue sky! I actually can’t remember the last time it rained. Sure it snows, more coming tomorrow, but you get used to it and it’s not that bad. Electricity/gas is more expensive due to the distribution costs, I’ve noticed some food prices to be more costly as well but in the end the housing makes it worth it."
"Used to live in Calgary and it was awful for me, these are the things I look back negatively on. Housing is cheap for a reason. You’ll be married to your car and going anywhere is a long drive through repetitive grey suburban hell. I remember that if I wanted a bag of chips from the convenience store that would wind up being a 30 min round trip by the time I scraped the car, drove there, parked, went in, drove back, parked, and plugged in the car. Pain in the ass. Would not live in suburban hell again, which is the only “affordable” place in AB. There’s very little to do at night. The city is laid out very badly, transit is essentially nonfunctional unless you’re within walking distance of a C-train station (and your destination is too). Utilities in Alberta are several times more expensive than in BC and the conservative governments repeatedly collude with O/G to keep it that way/make it worse (example: they’re currently in the middle of a 3 month “price freeze” so that people wouldn’t notice the spike in electricity/gas prices. But everyone just racked up debt for 3 months which the entire province will be forced to pay a rate rider on their bill for the next 2 years to pay for. Prices were near/over $0.30/kWh PLUS DISTRIBUTION CHARGES for much of that 3 months). The government doesn’t even pretend to work for the voting block, because it’s so safely blue that they don’t need to. Many MLAs won’t even return calls/emails, even with a form letter. There’s no reason to. The wind is awful in the winter. The cold is awful in the winter (don’t tell me rain is worse until you spend 3 weeks at -40C every year or second year). It’s way too dry indoors your nose/throat can hurt all winter. The grass is always greener, but it is really much greener in BC than AB for the most part. That said, unaffordability is a huge problem and I don’t fault anyone for getting away from it. If you’re going to go that way, make sure you’re doing it for reasons you’ll personally find fulfilling long term."
"I moved from Vic to Calgary in 2014 and at the time I was totally devastated to leave lotus land. I had grown up in AB and felt like Calgary had nothing to offer in terms of culture and opportunity. I was totally wrong! My social life took off and so did my career and hobbies. The dating scene was way more open and friendly, I made tons of cool friends, met my current partner and got really involved in the arts community that was cool and supportive, way more so than the west coast. I loved exploring the mountains and drumheller on my weekends. The thing that sucks is the rental market is unregulated so you can have your rent raised any amount at any time with only a month's notice. Also crime is pretty high in the more urban areas, which is where you want to live, the suburbs suck. Also the politics can get pretty extreme and the economy goes up and down like a yoyo. Like a little while ago the UCP was suggesting getting their own police force. That shit's terrifying - even if you're on the conservative side, Alberta gets wacky. It's not a fun city to be poor in. You need to have a vehicle in good shape and a bit of extra money to escape the winters. I would say if you're financially secure or young and have a lot of hustle left in you it can be a really fun city to live in."
"I went the other way, Calgary to island."
"Former Edmontonian turned Vancouverite here (yes I know wrong direction and wrong city) but honestly I am so glad I left Alberta and would never look back. When I watched the UCP win from abroad, I felt like I lost my home and could never go back. Yes the weather here is grey, but it's been sunny the past few days and you totally forget the pain of the grey days and feel so thankful to live in such a beautiful place. Weather? Foggetaboutit. Vancouver is tropical compared to Alberta. My e

zcma'd skin loves the (slightly more) humid air and I struggle to breathe and not have all my skin crack open when I go home. Yes yes it's so fucking expensive here, but I'm willing to pay extra for a better quality of living (walkable areas, able to be outside most of the year, great skiing 30 mins from downtown, I can walk to the beach) It's no contest."
"I moved from Abbotsford to Calgary in 2015 and loved it! My family is from the coast so I grew up with the rain and hated it; the cold was a shock when I moved to AB but I love the sun and the snow. Downtown and the adjacent areas had a great vibe, housing costs and COL are far more reasonable, and there's always festivals/things to do on the weekend. The outdoorsy aspect of Calgary is great too - you can float the river in the summer, the parks and pathways systems are huge and well-maintained. I ended up moving to small town AB after I met my now-husband but Calgary is still one of my favorite places to go visit!"
"I went there for 6 months. It was -35° for the entire month of February, it was horrible so I moved back. Won't make that mistake again."
"Moved from Vancouver to Calgary 2 years ago and WOULD NOT move back. Don’t get me wrong, I love Vancouver. I’m from the Okanagan originally and lived in Van for a decade. Reasons I like Calgary more: -we were able to buy a house and start a family. -the sunshine!!!! Oh my gosh it’s so much less grey. -roads actually built for winter -feels less busy and packed in -traffic (even at rush hour times) is so much better than van -people are SIGNIFICANTLY friendlier -dog parks EVERYWHERE. We actually spend more time hiking and camping than we did when living in Vancouver. While the city is more sprawled out, I can actually get anywhere faster than I ever could in Vancouver so I spend less time driving overall. If Vancouver suits your lifestyle you might love it more, but for my family Calgary feels like a much better fit."
"At first it was great! I would ski Banff on the weekends and started to figure out how to shop for cowboy hats and boots. But then, after a month I started to notice a few things. Alot of things honestly. The hockey team was good, and that was really hard to get use to. The roads, they plowed them. Cocaine. Somehow there was more cocaine here than in Vancouver. **I never lived in Calgary. Drove threw Alberta once. Hit the bong twice this morning."
"The hockey team bit made me laugh in the most depressed way :p"
"I somehow got a good laugh out of this. It felt like watching a B grade movie wondering where the plot is going and at the end, not going anywhere. Love how you tapered yours, too. Thanks for the laugh."
"Haha Cheers!"
"Snow snarls Calgary just like it does in Vancouver."
"Did Alberta call you?"
"Moved last summer, I’m really liking it. Scored a crazy good job and my rent for a whole house (all to myself) is the same as I was paying to rent a room in Kelowna. It feels like there’s hope to actually build a stable life here."
"Lower Mainland/Southwest. I went the other way. I moved to BC for the first time in Aug 2022 to Quesnel for a job and then transferred to Vancouver after my long term relationship ended. I got sick of the political BS in Alberta but overall it was good aside from the fact a lot of decisions made by the AB Government fucked me and my family over for years. Calgary is okay, I mean if you like nature there’s plenty of parks and places to get away from the hustle and bustle but if you’re looking to use transit primarily you’re going to have a bad time because Calgary built a very shitty transit system. Car insurance in Alberta is now as bad as ICBCs old rates were and utilities will make you scream (using $50 worth of power + $70 wtf charges). So Alberta isn’t really as affordable as it markets itself in my experience. Calgary is a pretty decent place to live but like Vancouver it has its downsides and upsides. Vancouver has a superior transit system and has superior access to anything you need no matter where you live in Metro Vancouver. Accessing medical care however is like pulling teeth, I have no idea how it can get so bad. Rent is $1940.00 which is agreeable but I could get something in Calgary for a lot better and less, hydro is pretty agreeable and ICBC is well ICBC but at least I have a decent rate. Thinking of selling the car anyway because transit here seems to serve me well. I find the drivers here are way to oblivious and less cautious

 compared to Quesnel and PG. So far I love it here just wish I had more friends lol"
"Calgary is not a bad city in and if itself. There are some absolute crazies around for sure. But you get that in any city. If I never had to leave Calgary it might not be so bad. The reason I'm moving back to BC, though, after being here for 6 years, is because the political climate is like a KFC dumpster that someone dropped a huge shit in and then set on fire. I can't fucking stand how uneducated and selfish people here are, and it's worse in the rural Albertan communities. In my 6 years living and working around southern Alberta it has essentially turned into a Republican US state (where I have also lived). I know rural BC is pretty bad too, especially lately, but while rural BC may be 10-15 years behind the rest of the country, southern Alberta is 30+."
"2 months into calgary. Its been good its a lot sunnier here. It is cold but ive actually been working outside everyday and have been fine. Just remember to apply lotion cause its super dry here and get a humidifier. Only things i miss is BC’s beautiful lush greenery and being able to skateboard outside in the winter."
"I am well settled in Vancouver, but if not then I would’ve moved to Calgary in a heartbeat. Vancouver as a city is overrated. Other than the westend and the DT, the city is shitty with crumbling infra. If it was not for the beautiful nature surrounding it, this place wouldn’t have been any different from Manitoba."
"Interesting… I avoid downtown and the west end as much as I can. Different strokes I guess."
"You are forgetting the West Side of Vancouver and the beautiful North Shore and a basic lack of mosquitos. They joke about the State bird in North Dakota as being the mosquito...but guess what, we don't have screens on our windows here because we don't need them."
"Or you know the lack of blizzards and sub-20 winters, the lack of bird sized mosquitos, lots of reasons van is more liveable than winterpeg."
"I like how people from Calgary regularly talk about the wonderful outdoor activities in the Rocky Mountains as if they can quickly access that area, similar to going to North Vancouver from Vancouver proper. It’s two hours to Banff, y’all."
"It’s 30 mins to Kananaskis, 45 mins to Canmore and 60 to Banff. I dunno where you’re getting 2 hrs from."
"This isn't bad at all. I mean it takes me from lower Lonsdale in North Van to Seymour around 45 min 🤔"
"Sure — it's 30 mins to Kananaskis turnoff, 60 mins to Kananaskis proper, 50 mins to Canmore, and 65 mins to Banff — from the very west edge of the city. From nearly anywhere else, it can be 50, 85, 70, and 90, respectively. Another 30 on weekends. That's all without getting to a particular trail or site to do your preferred outdoor activity. For certain areas, 2 hours is a conceivable estimate."
"This is probably the most popular trailhead in Kanansakis for mountain biking and XC skiing, 45 minutes from the middle of the city, super common area for mountain bikers to ride here during the week, after the work day."
"Ahh yes. My bad. I completely forgot Bragg Creek is Kananaskis Country (and now incl. in Conservation Pass Area); in my circle it was always considered its own rec area. Pretty self-centred of me sorry."
"Oops! My mistake. I googled “ how far from Calgary to the Rocky Mountains “. I didn’t notice that the answer came back telling me how far from Calgary to Rocky Mountain HOUSE. That’ll teach me to be a smug Vancouverite."
"What? I go mountain biking in kananskis after work and its a 45 minute drive from the inner city."
"From surrey to grouse is an hour easy lol."
"It’s 50 min to Kananaskis, 60 to Canmore 75 to Banff 120 to Lake Louise for most people in the northwest southwest. It is way more accessible to great hikes in Calgary to Vancouver and the traffic is minimal."
"2 hour drive, really isn't that big a deal imo... maybe I'm just used to it, though."
"Geez. Comments here are ridiculous. Calgary is an excellent city with generally very good paying jobs. Low cost of housing and great access to an international airport, and some of the most beautiful, hiking and mountains in the world. I would say much more accessible to the mountains, the most to Vancouver and area. The political situation really doesn’t impact Calgary and Edmonton that much and people are much more central or left politically in the big cities

. But outside of Calgary and Edmonton. People are ridiculously Christian right mentality. I would not live outside of Calgary or Edmonton. That being said Vancouver is perhaps the most beautiful city in the world and when you go back, you’ll always be like why did I move. But then you live here and you can’t really enjoy it because it’s hard to make friends and people are struggling to make ends meet with multiple jobs. Traffic is shitty And people break plans all the time when you actually want to enjoy the outdoors with someone else. Major advantage of Vancouver is exceptional restaurants that are actually well priced. Even the weather really isn’t that much better when you take an account how shitty cold rainy weather is. I have lived years both of Vancouver and Calgary and I am retiring to Kelowna, so make it what you will."
"There are three other comments. One guy said Calgary is good. Another was high and made no sense. The third said he was glad he moved away from Calgary to Vancouver. Where are these unreasonable comments you complain of."
"I've never lived in Calgary, only BC. I was born here. Even I have noticed how crappy people have become. Rents are out of this world. Pay for me has dropped in the past few years. I live on $50,000. A year. Doesn't give much for entertainment. I'm only a few years from retiring. I'll be forced out of the town I helped to build. We now have every walk of life in Vancouver. But no one trusted one another. They stick to themselves except when there's a festival. Addiction has gotten out of control. Homelessness and mental illness top our charts. Life in Vancouver is hard unless you're rich. I see million dollar condos popping up all over the city. And more hopelessness foe people with lower incomes. It hurts to see this take place in what used to be a gorgeous town. I'll be moving on soon. Don't know where, but it will not be close to Vancouver. Calgary sounds nice."
"Canada, especially Calgary is full of racist, homophobic, violent redneck yahoos. Some are not but that is why I moved far away from Alberta."
"Spent 16 years in Calgary, it wore thin, we left. Much happier back closer to family."
"Considering a move to Calgary from the North Shore of Vancouver - Seeking advice."

"Have you ever been to Calgary? I suggest visiting for more than a few days to see how you like it and explore different areas and communities."

"You've done the math and it makes sense financially, so that part is clear. It's about whether the quality of life matches what you're looking for. Salary might get you into a consulting role, which is something to consider. Calgary experiences economic fluctuations, so be prepared for potential setbacks."

"I live an introverted lifestyle and find Calgary suits me well. There's always something to do when I choose to go out. I recommend spending a week here during winter to really understand what it's like."

"Most people who move here have issues building a social circle. Having kids will help as school and sports activities are great ways to meet people."

"While Calgary is generally secular, be cautious of overly religious individuals or those involved in multi-level marketing when making friends."

"I went to public school in Calgary, and the education system is pretty uniform across the city, although parent engagement can differ by community."

"People who want to feel wealthy often send their kids to private or chartered schools, so consider that and its costs."

"Confirm school enrollment processes and catchment areas carefully, especially if you have multiple children."

"Calgary summers are typically hot, sunny, and dry, while winters can vary with occasional mild periods due to Chinooks, but also experience severe cold spells."

"Living in Calgary, you need to embrace outdoor activities, especially in the surrounding natural areas."

"Finding a house in Calgary might be cheaper than you think, with nice homes starting in the high $700s in some new communities."

"Calgary is a sunny, dry, safe place, ideal for raising a family but be prepared for its long winters and embrace the outdoors."

"I moved from Vancouver to Calgary and found it to be a great decision financially and for my family's quality of life."

"Calgary might not save as much as expected due to rising costs. Housing prices are increasing, and the savings from moving might not be as significant."

"Consider the difference in lifestyle and weather. Calgary's winters are long and cold, which might be a shock coming from Vancouver."

"I prefer Calgary's winter over Vancouver's constant rain. The dryness and sunshine here make it more bearable for me."

"Moving to Calgary with a significant drop in family income requires careful planning. Consider the impact on your quality of life and make sure the move aligns with your family's values and goals."

"I moved to Vancouver from Calgary for work in 2019. I'm now going to be moving back at the end of this year, not just for school but to settle back for good. The only things I'll miss about Vancouver are the trees, the option of having lots of things to do, the vibrancy, and food. Calgary is a great city to live in. Living in Calgary, the only 2 things I ever use to get bummed about were the long random winters and how boring it can get in comparison to other large cities. But you'll instantly notice a better quality of life."

"I lived in Vancouver for a few years around 2010. I found Calgary has less to do but I had more cash in the bank at the end of the day which allowed me to get away for vacations twice a year. In Vancouver, I was basically living paycheck to paycheck."

"I agree about the food - the food here is nothing like Vancouver. With notable exceptions, it's really awful. I got criticized for writing how I felt. International tourists find the food here terrible too. Of course, if Montana's is your view of good food then I guess this is a culinary amazon rain forest..."

"The trees, yes I miss the trees. Really really miss the trees. Darn you you're making me homesick!"

"I mean the fact you mentioned Montana's leads me to believe you live in the suburbs of Calgary and consider franchises of the NW the culinary scene of Calgary? You can get a $10 steak here that tastes better than a $30 steak just about anywhere else in the world."

"We aren’t big foodies, actually we are veggies and I already checked out the veggie restaurants and was pleasantly surprised at the options! Also, we currently live in a small town on Vancouver Island so have limited options here anyways. Restaurant quality is low down our list of priorities at this point in our life."

"Nah not overcrowded. Schools are fine. If you move into a 1970s suburb the schools are itching for people. We love Calgary. Been here coming on 12 years. It’s dry though. Like at first you like how dry it is. Then years later you don’t like it as much and yearn for humidity. That’s about the only complaint."

"Agreed! I was from Ontario and been in AB 12 years. It was a hard adjustment. I never used to need moisturizer but you are right - you adjust."

"What? My kids' school has like 35 kids or more in each room."

"Ok, I suppose there are outliers or I’m wrong, or all of these things!"

"Yes, I love waking up sweating, having a shower, getting out of the shower and having your shirt stick to you for the entire day. Yumm, humidity. Having to lotion dry skin isn't great but it also makes the cold weather much more tolerable. I'd take -25 here over -5 in humidity."

"I’m from Northern BC and have also lived in Vancouver, and after 4 years I’m still happy in Calgary. Being from the North I’m used to the winters anyway so it wasn’t a major change for me. Sometimes I get a little homesick but Calgary is affordable for a large city, we’ve still got a great landscape, and there really is a great sense of community here."

"My wife is busy right now, but if she were online she would say it was definitely worth it for her to move here since she gets to be married to me."

"Ahaha good one!"

"Thanks. Seriously though, we go back to Vancouver a lot as her family is there and while it’s nice to visit, I could never live there. Salaries are higher here AND house prices are lower. You can actually pay off your house and build a decent retirement fund here. Then there is the weather… yes it’s certainly warmer there in degrees, but due to humidity most of the time it feels as warm or warmer here getting on the plane as it does an hour later getting off there. And the lack of sun is painful. You won’t know till you are here and experience sun almost every day. The lack of crowds and traffic is also a big one. You get to spend time with your family instead of commuting to work."

"We are from Ireland and so are used to the rain but I’m starting to think we have a touch of SAD in the winters, I think sunshine would do us a lot of good! Yes, our salaries look to be roughly the same but housing would be 500k less and allow us to get on the property ladder as opposed to renting forever in a house that’s too small!"

"Don’t quote me but I do think I read somewhere that Calgary sees Sun like 310 days of the year! It’s definitely awesome. Except for now, when it’s -30 and you think oh look, it’s sunny out bahaha but nah still freezing

 ;) I came to Calgary 12 years ago and I love it. I was able to buy a condo here. Taxes are lower. Car Insurance and hydro is much, much cheaper than some other provinces. I think you would enjoy it. Also… so close to the mountains :)"

"Yes, I think you are right about sunny days. Calgary is officially the sunniest city in Canada. Plus you get bragging rights so when your kids grow up you can tell them how you lived thru those bitterly cold days back in the winter of ‘22. You kids these days have it so easy. Whereas if you stay in Vancouver you could only talk about that time it was rainy… not quite the same."

"My mother in law has a terrible time with SAD there in winter. I know when we go out for Christmas I’m just sleepy for the first week too. Here it’s the opposite. But for us the big one is financial. Being able to afford a nice house, with a big yard, close enough to a school to walk the kids there each day. That’s priceless. AND it’s a fraction of the cost of Vancouver."

".. you'll still get winter SAD in Calgary. Days get pretty short, and with a -30 cold snap over the holidays, we spent a lot of time inside. .. but there is lots of Sun, and sunshine in the summer.. with the exception of wildfire smoke. Another bummer some summers."

"Moved 3.5 years ago and you couldn’t pay me to move back to the Lower Mainland… well maybe if you paid me $2M so I could buy a single family home. But for real - don’t miss the rain, cost of living, traffic, crowdedness… if I had to move back to BC I’d go to the Island."

"We are on the island, it’s awesome here but the cost of living is killing us and we make above average salaries. I don’t know how anyone gets ahead without inheritance or family money, neither of which we have."

"Second choice: Kootenays. Nelson."

"We have considered the interior of BC but job-wise there’s not much for us there, Prince George would be good though for jobs."

"Lived in Northern BC my whole life then moved to Calgary to try something different a few years ago. Pros and cons of both, but I can tell you I don't think I'd ever be able to get used to the amount of rain we'd get back in BC ever again. It's always almost nice out here which is amazing."

"That does sound amazing haha."

"Me too! Born/raised in northern BC and could never go back to that rain again. I'll visit and I'm freezing from the dampness the entire time."

"I am a transplant but not from BC. If you consider relocating here go through these. Only planned being here a few years...that was over 20 years ago. I am glad I made Calgary my home, warts and all. :)"

"Thanks for the resource!"

"I am from Vancouver and really the main reason I miss it and have some second thoughts about living here is I miss my family and friends. Also, winter can feel long when you are not used to such extreme cold. However, there is no question that we can afford a way better quality of life here. In Vancouver, we lived in a shithole and spent all our time commuting. Doing similar jobs here, we love our house and live basically within twenty minutes of everything. And we don't have financial stress constantly hanging over our heads. We can even afford for me to work part-time while our child is young, which wouldn't have been remotely possible in Vancouver. In my field in particular, salaries are much higher here too."

"As for schools, my daughter is only 18 months, but I have worked in schools in the Lower Mainland and here and I have to admit, I worry a little about sending her to school here. In my experience, schools in BC have way more support staff and smaller class sizes. Also, it seems like in many neighborhoods here, kids have to bus across town because the neighborhood schools are full. Didn't see that as much where I lived/worked in BC. Not crazy drastic differences though. Schools here are fine. Like anywhere, it's often just luck as to whether you get teachers that are a good fit for your kid."

"Oh, and as for restaurants, there are good ones if you know where to look. For example, I had never had Nepali or Tibetan food in Vancouver, but have eaten at several delicious such places here. If you like hole-in-the-wall ethnic places, there are tons of options here. I'm not a big fine dining person so I guess I can't say how that compares."

"Alberta has some of the highest test scores and some of the best educational outcomes, if not the best educational outcomes in all of Canada. I have friends whose kids went to school in BC after spending most of their life in a Calgary school

 and they were average students but completely bored in BC, as the at-grade level felt to them to be an entire year behind. BC has probably the worst education in Canada."

"That’s great to know thanks for the info. Yes, my son is in a great school here which we would be sad to leave. It’s great because we rent in a very expensive area (somehow lucked out on cheap rent) and so they have lots of resources and parents who are able to put the time and effort into helping the school."

"The school situation depends heavily on where you chose to live. Some are massively overcrowded and have lotteries to get your kids in even if you live across the street and some are being shut down because there aren't enough kids. If you move, rent for a bit to get a feel for these things. It is so local, nobody here can give you a good answer unless they know the street you are going to live on."

"I grew up in Vancouver, moved here 3 years ago and I don't regret it. Bought a house I never could have done that in BC and I pay less for my house than we did in Vancouver for rent on a 1bd."

"I've lived in Alberta all my life. What I can tell you is that Calgary is awesome to raise a family. Plenty of cool activities. My son is in grade one. The school was built brand new last year when he was in kindergarten. He has roughly 15 kids in his class. It's been super awesome. In my community of Evergreen, there are a lot of young families and my son is outside all the time playing with kids when the warmer weather arrives. 80 percent of my income isn't going towards the cost of living. I wouldn't want to live anywhere else!"

"Thanks for your input that’s great to hear. Our kiddo is about the same age and we have a younger one still in daycare. What are after school care options like? Easy to find or do you need to fight to the death with other parents at 5am to get a spot on the waitlist?"

"So you can opt for before and after school care. Given they just introduced the $10/day program, I'm assuming the price has dropped considerably (previously $875 for k, $545 for 1-3). Otherwise, I see a ton of day home situations around the neighborhood. I find it very easy to find child care."

"We moved from Coventry Hills to Chestermere because we could get a bigger house closer to schools where we didn't need to enter a lottery to get into. Make sure you check out the school system as newer communities might not have a school unless you look at somewhere like Chestermere which is 5 minutes outside the city and 3 minutes from Stoney Trail and Highway 1."

"People need to stop saying “5 min to Calgary” when someone from another place is asking. I literally live on the east side of Calgary and it's a min of 20min to get to anything in Chestermere. City limit to city limit doesn't mean shit in the real world. And 3 min to Stoney Trail lol!"

"It’s a 20-25 minute drive to downtown from Chestermere. Heck, it only takes 20 minutes to get to the Deep South. If we are talking city limit to city limit it is now 2 minutes with Chelsea and Belvedere being built."

"You have bent the space/time continuum."

"In perfect conditions yeah, but if you are talking rush hour more like 40mins."

"Most schools don’t require a lottery to get in."

"Yes, most schools. We had that issue when we lived in Coventry Hills but this was before they built the other school."

"Was it for your zoned school or a specialty program?"

"Our zoned school. Our daycare provider at the time didn’t get in the lottery and her kid had to get on a bus every day despite being right across the street from the school."

"I can tell you BC is not worth it. I’ve been living in Calgary on and off for ten years now, born and raised Vancouver Islander. Alberta's the province I live in for 3 months a year. You can at least afford to live and give yourself options. No way in hell would I choose any period of the drudgery and rain-soaked hell that is Vancouver or Victoria over the options I have now. The rest of the time I’m in Mexico or somewhere way hotter, nicer, and prettier."

"Thanks for your perspective!!"

"Moved from Kelowna area. Have absolutely no intention to move back. Love Calgary :)"

"Absolutely been here 8 years won’t go back."

"You'll never get a straight answer so.. make a decision and stick with it. As someone who was born and raised in BC.. I'd go back in a heartbeat if I could."

"Thanks, I hope you get to return someday!"

"I moved to Calgary from Prince George in 2000.

 Been here 21 years. While I sometimes miss a smaller town lifestyle I prefer to be here. There is so much more to do and lots of opportunity for my kids. I think you will be happy here! :)"

"Just look at the prices in BC. There’s about to be a mass exodus from this beautiful, but atrociously priced place. It’s disgusting. 1 million for an avg. house in Kelowna! Ha. No thanks. I love BC, but the writing is on the wall. I’ll be moving in April/May."

"I love Vancouver in the summer - in the winter it's a form of hell. So is Calgary. It's very very cold here. However, I prefer Calgary because of the sunshine and I enjoy mountains and biking. :) I'd never in a million years move back to Vancouver."

"I moved from Kamloops 15 years ago and personally, it was worth it because I was leaving behind a bad situation, toxic family, and whatnot. I did adjust well, the environment was a bit similar, Kamloops is a very dry climate, semi-arid in fact. So the dryness didn't bother me but the winters messed me up for a bit, Kamloops didn't get as cold as here but it was also a hell of a lot warmer over there than here. Can't comment on anything else as I was an adult coming here."

"I so enjoyed my time living in YYC, awesome place, for an active person who wants to be outdoors, it's ace. Sorry, cannot answer on the schools front, no experience on that. The weather is not really an issue, just roll with it and use it."

"This is a very good read. Thanks for posting. I’ve lived on Vancouver Island for the past ten years and hate how it became unable to afford living here, and lack of infrastructure compared to bigger cities (though I am lucky to have a family doctor here). As someone who doesn’t love outdoor activities, not much pros other than warmer weather."

"That’s where we are too, it’s totally unaffordable for young families. It sucks."

Moved from North Van to Calgary about 8 years ago. Calgary is family-oriented, Vancouver is not. Miss the ocean but find the mountains much better here. In Calgary, we don't stress over cost of living and housing like in Vancouver. People are more open, friendly, and less cliquey in Calgary. Calgary has a significantly smaller issue with homelessness and drugs, it's generally much safer. The weather is sunnier, brighter, and less depressing in Calgary.

Moved from the valley to Calgary 16 years ago. The skiing is much better here than anywhere around Vancouver. The arts/music scene isn't as good but is coming along nicely. Traffic is better in Calgary. Highways all over the city make getting from quadrant to quadrant generally easy.

Moved to Vancouver from Calgary and now live on the North Shore. Calgary is very suburban and owning a car is a must. Houses are way bigger and more affordable, food and gas are way cheaper. Utilities are expensive, especially in winter. Summers are warm, dry, and long daylight hours. The mountains are a quick drive down highway one. Calgary has great schools, very centrally built neighbourhoods and people tend to be very friendly.

Living in Surrey, looking to take equity (500k) to buy a place in Calgary. Given the choice between raising a family in Surrey or Calgary, would pick Calgary every time. Tech isn't the best out here but getting way better. Might have a hard time buying a house outright for 500k in Calgary due to recent price increases.

Moved from North Van to Calgary 6 months ago. Bought a 2600 sq ft house in a nice neighborhood in Calgary while keeping mortgage payments the same. Taxes are lower, groceries/gas are cheaper in Calgary. People are nicer in Calgary. Calgary has affordable real estate, sunny skies, and more space. The arts/music scene isn't as good but it is coming along nicely. Traffic is better in Calgary.

Why not move to small town BC? It's a completely different province/past Hope. Pretty much all of BC has high real estate prices now. Thought about Sechelt/Gibsons/Nanaimo/Victoria but want to live in a city with good hospitals, schools. Look at towns like Vernon or Kelowna as well. Major airport in Kelowna and it’s only 4-5 hours drive to Vancouver. Close to towns like Nelson & Revelstoke too. Calgary is nice but if buying a house is the goal then look at smaller towns.

Loved BC, from Gabriola to Port Hardy to Trail to Fort Nelson, it's a beautiful province. The last 5 years have changed my mind on BC. The hippie part is gone, and it's just a materialistic rat race now where I live. Vancouver is definitely more tech-focused and lots of transplants from back east has made a change. City isn’t going back to yoga studios & Starbucks on every block, it’s now boutique gyms & chain pizza by the slice joints. Downtown core being dead hasn’t helped the city vibe either

